# Genus Clients
**SESSION BY INSTRUCTOR:** *The instructor will start off by giving you a brief introduction to the topic. The session will include a review of the client's functionality (i.e. objects, navigation, search, etc).*

## Genus Web Client

With Genus Web, you can access your applications across all devices and Operating Systems through any regular web browser. You can publish several applications to different users based on their privileges and security policies. Here, you have a rich user interface editor, and you can support business actions across devices.  

### Exercise 1.1.1 - The Web Client
Familiarize yourself with your own solution. Access the application from your provided link (https://edu-usr{X}-origin.edu.genus.net/), and enter the Facility Management solution. You are now viewing the application from the perspective of a responsible employee from a tenants company.

1. **Overview**
Take a look at the Overview page - this initial page assembles a brief summary of ongoing activity for the tenant's property. Most of the information provided here, is available

2. **Components**
Click on a component with "open Tasks". Have a look at the tabs available and the tasks related to the Component.

3. **Agreements**
Have a look at the different pages. Open the agreement document from the action bar.

4. **Tasks**
Hover over the symbols in the task list, to show the help texts. Note the arrow to the right of the table name. Click it and change the view.
Move some columns around - note that the order you create for yourself will be persisted for future logins. The default settings can always be restored in the upper right corner.


Also, get familiar with the navigation and the layout. Change your settings to dark mode, and have a look at your profile.


## Genus Desktop Client
The Genus Windows Desktop Client runs as a desktop application on Windows Operating System and requires the user’s PC to have Genus pre-installed. Here, you have access to rich functionality and advanced control and customizability - the desktop client provides great support for advanced business activities or advanced users.

###Exercise 1.1.2 Genus Microsoft Desktop Client

While this course focuses heavily on Genus' Web interfaces, some "backroom" functionality is showcased in the Desktop Client. This functionality could just as easily be placed in the web user interface.
Using the "Genus Desktop"-shortcut on the Home page of the edu-user, log into the Desktop functionality.

Take a moment to familiarize yourself with the solution. Users logging into this solution, will most likely be administration from the Property Management's company, keeping track of all customers (subscribers) and providers (companies hired to perform maintenance etc on properties)


Navigate to the Administration. Take a look at Users and General Codes.

1. **Providers**
The Provider Pane provides an overview of Companies, subscribers and providers. The "Provider" table is merely a filtered version of the "Companies" table, but provides a more specialized context to work in. You can also keep track of agreements - signed or drafted in this navigation section. These agreements usually pertains to maintenance or service agreements for specific services or properties. In the Facility Management app, the tenant can view the agreements pertaining to their lease and physical components.

2. **Properties**
The Properties Pane is used to keep track of all properties the Property Manager has registered in its system - these can be properties the Property Manager owns and leases out today, or prospective properties.

3. **Administration**
The Administration Pane is often used to manage dynamic code domains and user access. Most of the available code domains here are location based.


<br/>
<br/>



<table>
   <tr><td><a href="case-description-fs.md"><- Previous</a></td><td align="right"><a href="e1.2-genus-studio.md">Next -></a></td></tr>
</table>
