# Genus' IDE - Developer Tool
**SESSION BY INSTRUCTOR:** *The instructor will start off by giving you a brief introduction to the topic. The session will include a review of Genus Studio's sections and functionality.*



Genus Studio is our IDE, or Integrated Development Environment. This is where we create and manage all parts of the application stack, whether it's the application model, user interfaces, business logic, security policies, deployments and so much more. Access to Genus Studio is limited to superusers who develop applications, services or business logic in Genus.

While you will become more familiar with the different sections of Genus Studio during the course, a brief summary of the main functions follows


## User Interaction
This section is where all your user interfaces are created, and connected to user actions.


###Web and Desktop
The Web section is where you define your web apps and modules, containing web user interfaces and actions.

In turn, the Desktop section is where you define the navigation menu and user interfaces for the Genus Windows Desktop solution.


### Actions
The Actions section is where global actions are defined - actions you create here can be references in the User Interactions (Web and Desktop applications) and Application services (Agents and REST services).


## Application Services

### Agents
Agents are time scheduled actions, allowing for automated running of actions.

### Web/REST Services
Genus can expose Web/REST Service endpoints, allowing communication across systems.

## Security
Throughout Genus, we apply various security mechanisms. These rely on the settings defined in the Security section. Here, you define identity providers, manage users and create security groups used to provide correct access to apps and data.


### Account Profiles
This is where you define which object class (or database table) information about a User Account is connected to.

### Security Groups
This is where you define user groups that are used throughout Genus to provide access to data, user interfaces or actions.

### Permissions
This is where you can view the components of your solution that is conditionally available to users. Here, you can set global rules for each security group-object combination. You can even attach specific conditions to a single type of permission (such as; Members of the **Security Group** "Service Subscribers" can only **Find and List** **Tasks** that they've created themselves). This allows for a very customized security model.


## Data Structure
This section is where your data model - your representation of the real world within the domain - is created. The elements here, lay down the groundwork for the data you can access and alter in user interfaces, web services, user actions etc.

### Object Class/Data Model
**Object Classes** are Genus' name for the business entities that build your model of the domain (such as "Company", "Task"). These have **properties** and can be inter-connected to each other. You can also create defined **data hierarchies** that can be useful in reporting.

### XML Schemas
XML schemas are defined and used for communication with several third parties where strict data format rules need to be followed - for instance some Web Services and when performing "Mail Merge" with Windows (creating documents with data input).

### Rules
Rules are actions that are triggered by data-based event, such as *after a main Task status is set completed, mark sub-tasks completed as well*.


## Administration
This is were you find global settings for your environment, such as calendar settings and database connections.

### Settings
This is where you set some important global settings, such as **UI Theme**, **Calendar setup** and **E-mail server**.

### Environments and Namespaces
In Namespaces, you define your resource URLs for accessing your solution, and the services that are available for each one. Origin is never published to end users, but is used in the development phase.
In environment, you keep track of the running environments and what's been published to end users.

### Databases
This is where information about Genus' connection to the database is. If you need to make changes in the database or alter the data model, you can always find crucial information here.

### Themes
This is where you can define Colour Themes to be used in your solution globally (through "Settings") or within specific apps.

<br/>
<br/>




<table>
   <tr><td><a href="e1.1-genus-clients.md"><- Previous</a></td><td align="right"><a href="data-model.md">Next -></a></td></tr>
</table>
