# 2.3 Object Class Property Customizing



# 2.3.1 Contact's Data Properties

Modify the following settings on the Data Properties of Contact (double-click on a Property):
1. Company, First Name and Last Name: Tab «Data Validation», uncheck «Allow blank value». In other words, the fields become mandatory.
2. Created Date:
   1. Tab «Security», check «Read». The field becomes Read Only for the end user.
   2. Tab «Data Calculation»: Set Default = Time Stamp. The value of the field is set to the server's current time when the Contact object is created, and cannot be edited later.
3. Created By: Add the same Security as Created Date, but set default value to «Active User Account Stamp». The value of the field is set to the logged in user that creates the object, and cannot be editet later.
4. Modified Date:
   1. Tab «Security», check «Read».
   2. Tab «Data Calculation», set Formula = Time Stamp. Formulas are updated everytime an object is changed. In other words, Modified Date is updated automatically everytime a user saves a change made on a Contact.
5. Modified By: Same Security as Modified Date, but set Formula = Active User Account Stamp. The value of the field is set to the logged in user everytime a change on a Contact is saved.
6. State: Tab «Data Calculation»: Set Default = Active. The state of the Contact is set to Active when it is created. The state can be changed later. Note also that the field is of Data Type int. The state is stored in the database as an integer, but is mapped to the Code Domain in Genus called «Object State», which translates 1 to «Active» and 2 to «Inactive». You will be able to see this by right-clicking the object class «Object State» -> Open -> Data Entries.
