
# 2.3 Repetition: Add new property "Severity" to Concern

We note that there is no way for the Tenant to indicate the impact or seriousness of the reported concern, and want to extend the Object Class with a property denoting "Severity". There is no appropriate Code Domain already defined in the Data Model, so we will have to create a new one. When creating new Code Domains, we do not need to refer to a corresponding database table. The Code Domains are simply a "decoder", where we define an interpretation of a simple data value. For instance; value 1 means State = "Active". For any Object Class having an Outbound Reference to State, a data value of 1 will be interpreted in Genus as "Active". The "Value" of a code domain entry, is the value that is saved in the database. The Display Name tells us how to interpret this value in Genus. Code Domains are useful when a relatively static set of values are available. For more dynamic categorizations, Object Classes can be useful for a similar function (for instance with "Category" in our Academy Solution - here an end user can add relevant categories without access to Genus Studio). This is useful for more dynamic cases, where new options are added more often.


## 2.3.1 Create new Code Domain

1. Add new Code Domain and name it Severity.

*Note that Datatype is set to Integer. We want to keep this setting in our case, but Code Domains can also be string based. This can be useful when a short string is a meaningful representation of the Code - a good example is currency, where the Code Value can be "NOK" and the Display Name can be "Norwegian Kroner".*

2. Add the following Value-Display Name Entries to your Code Domain:

Value |  Display Name
:-------------------------:|:-------------------------:|
0 | None |
10 | Low |
20 | Medium |
30 | High |


### 2.3.2 Add Severity Property to Concern
Now, we're going to add a new property to the already existing Concern Object Class by using [Option 1](#option-1) from the last Exercise. Since our Code Domain's datatype was Integer, the new column's datatype is the same.

1. Run the following SQL Statement in your database:
```
alter table concern add SeverityID int
```
2. To import the newly added property to your existing Object Class, right click on "Concern" in the Object Class list and choose "Add Object Class Properties...". This initiates a wizard similar to the one you initially saw then creating "Concern", but specialized for the database columns that are not modelled in Genus yet. Set Data Interpretation to Severity.



### 2.3.3 Alter Property Settings

1. Head to the list of Object Properties and double-click your newly added Severity. Head to Data Calculation, and set default calculation to "Low".
2. We also want to require the property to have a value. We still want to allow an empty field if the Concern is in draft mode, so we cannot simply check away "Allow blank value". Add a new validation condition. Add the following conditions: State is not equal to Draft *and* Severity has no value. Because the field is required for the registered concern to be processed, we want to "Notify user and cancel command" (".. ask for confirmation to proceed" will allow the user to save after a warning). Add an appropriate notification message (such as "Field cannot be blank" or "Severity cannot be blank").
