# 4.2 Rule and Server Action



## 1. Rule: Set location-based value when Company is set
We've briefly mentioned that "rules" are actions triggered by data-related events, such as the creation of a new Concern or the alteration of a specific property value, and can be set globally. Rules can also be defined locally within a module. We now want to define a rule that auto-fills the "Property" value in cases where the Company value is set.

1. In order to do this, navigate to Data Sources or Data Diagram in the "Data Structure"-section. Mark the Concern data source and note the lowermost Property for the data source "Rules".
2. Click the "...", and "Add...". The Action editor you see now is slightly different from the one you've seen in the rest of the Web Module, but the same as for global rules and actions.
3. Click the "General"-tab and rename the rule to something appropriate such as "Set Property when Company is changed". When choosing the "Event", consider if you want the change to be a part of the initial change, or happen after. In this case, we would like the change to happen at the same time the changes to Company is persisted, so we do not choose "on After Modify". Instead, we choose "On After Validate". This only runs the rule if the chosen fields have been considered valid, and does not wait for the "save"-action to request the persisting in the database.
4. In the Data Sources Tab, select "Subscriber Company" to be the only Property that can trigger this rule. This avoids unnecessary triggering. As we only want to change the exact concern we're running the rule for, and based on a value weæve already set for the Concern, to other data sources are needed.
5. In Action Flow, add a Scope from the "Blocs"-section, but un-check the Commit. This is because we've set this rule to run "On After Validate", which may very well be before a user requests to save the Concern. We do not want to save the user's changes unexpectantly by doing it wihtin a rule they're not aware is running.
6. Add a "Modify Object(s)"-effect. Modify the "Current Object". You may note that the "Original Object" has a (N/A)-suffix. This is because your rule is not triggered after an object has been saved, so there's no recognized object from "before". In the Property field - set the new value to Current Object.Subscriber Company.Property.

Saving and exiting, your new rule is in place - you've already defined the action trigger by choosing Event and Property for the rule to trigger on.


## 2. Adding Concern to the Overview Page
While your new view is available in the sitemap, you may notice that the Overview page does not have a tile for "Concerns". If you look into the Facility Services Module, you'll notice that the tiles are connected to the Code Domain "Facility Service Indicator Type".


1. Add the code domain value "4 - Concern" to the "Facility Service Indicator Type" code domain.

2. We will be aggregating the count value for Concern, to create the number value on the tile. To facilitate this, we want to add a simple count-value to the Concern Object Class. This is somewhat similar to when we created the "Unbound" Display Name-property, only this time the value will be bound to the database. Even though we're creating a bound property, it will not be corresponding to a column in the database. Do the following:

  1. Add a new, one-way bound property for the Concern Object Class, named "No. of Concerns" with datatype 32-bit integer. *One-way bound properties rely on information from the database, but does not let Genus communicate information back to the database*.
  2. In Data Calculation, choose "RDBMS Expression", and simply type in *. *RDBMS expressions are sql-expressions that are added on top of the "regular" column query Genus sends the database to fetch information. The asterix is a "fetch all values"-query that is useful when aggregating a count value.*


3. Return to the Facility Management Module, and open the server actions. This action is where the summarizing values are created for the Overview page.

4. Add a local data source and name it "Concern aggregate". Add a single field with dataype "Integer" named "No of Concerns". *These local objects are not connected to, or persisted in, the database but are useful for temporarily holding onto values within an action.*

5. We will use the "Create a Data Aggregate"-effect to extract the Concern count that should be displayed on the tile. Place it in the same scope as the other aggregations. In this case, we want the same value as the badge on the "Backlog" (the default view for Concerns). This view is filtered using the "My Ongoing Concerns"-filter, so we will recreate this filter here.
    1. General: Base Data is set to Concern, and the aggregate is placed in your local data source "Concern Aggregate". The Concern is filtered with Company Subscriber = Active User Account.Primary Company Representative and State = Open
    2. Dimensions can be left as it is. This is often used for more complex aggregations, to connect e.g. calendar properties from the base data to calendar properties in the data aggregation destination.
    3. Measures: Select the property you created in step 2 - "No of Concerns" and apply Count as the aggregate function.

6. Add a "Create Object(s)"-effect, and add another row of "Module Indicator", with title "Concerns", Icon "Fluent-Message", Count from you local object you just populated and Facility Service Type Concern.


7. Save and refresh your application.
   Have a look at the Overview Canvas in the Facility Module, to see how your Concern tile showed up. Because the Repeating Container shows you "Module Indicator"s, the Concern indicator automatically showed up when you added your Concern in step 6.


## 2. Navigate to Concern from the Tile

1. In Client Actions, open "Navigate to Indicator Detail Page"
2. Add a When-statement for the Case-effect, ad set it to Identifier = Concern.
3. Within the When-clause, add a "Navigate to Page"-effect and let it lead to the "Ongoing Concerns"-view. Use the "Service subscriber - Ongoing Concerns"-filter. This essentially turns the "Concern"-tile in the Overview page into a navigation button.
4. Save and test. 
<!--
## Global Action
Use the "Agreement - Change State" -->
