# 6.1 Repetition - Photo Upload


We want the user to be able to upload a photo along with their Concern. Note that in the end, we will add a message-functionality where the Service Subscriber and Property Management can communicate back and forth. This will allow for file uploading too. Because we can upload photos here too, we will allow for a single-file upload when first reporting the concern. This allows us to add the file-related properties directly onto the existing concern Object Class. *Note that if we wanted to attach several files, likely a variable number too, a better solution would be creating two new object classes; a "File" or "Photo" object class and a relation-Object Class called "Concern Photo" which would contain Concern and Photo as outbound references. This type of setup allows for a one-to-many or many-to-many relationship, rather than the one-to-one relationship we create when adding the properties directly to Concern.*


## 1. Adding "File"-properties

There are a set of properties Genus needs to properly treat a file like a file, in addition to the "StreamData" (the file itself). These include file size or thumbnails. When setting up support for file uploading and saving, you will notice that some data types, have file-specific Data Interpretations available (such as "String", which can be interpreted as "File Name" or Integer as "File Size").

1. Run the following SQL to add required columns in the database   
   ```
alter table Concern add
  FileData varbinary(MAX),
  FileExtension varchar(120),
  FileName varchar(520),
  FileSize int,
  ThumbnailFileData varbinary(MAX),
  ThumbnailFileSize int  
  ```


2. Return to Genus Studio, find Concern in you Object Class list and right click to choose "Add Object Class Properties...". Make sure to keep all the file columns selected

**You need to ensure the following data interpretations are present; File Data, File Extension, File Name, File Size, Thumbnail File Data and Thumbnail File Size.**


## 2. Adding Photo Upload
Return to the Concern Data Module

1. Add Data Source of type File-> General File (instead of "Object"). Limit to one occurrence.
2. Add a Client Action named "Upload Photo", with data sources Concern (Occurence One) and General File (Occurence One). Assign appropriate Public Interface and Data Flow values and add an "Upload File(S)"-effect in the Action Flow that places the General file into your Concern's file properties. *Note that your Upload Effect does not need to "Create Object", because we're inserting the photo into an existing Concern-object". You can also leave "upload immediately" unchecked, in case the user wants to discard their changes in the context below this effect.*
3. Back in your Concern Details form:

    1. add a new container at the bottom of the page, at the same level as your other container, with margin 12 on all sides.
    2. Add a "Image"-control and connect the File Data-property to it. *Try adding a placeholder icon, Basic-Camera. Set height and width to stretch. Return to Viewport and set height to 1fr. Because the Image is an unknown size, "fit to content" can make it difficult to edit here. Set max height and width for the image to 500*


4. Add a button named "Upload Photo". Within the "Interaction"-section on your right, you can use the default action **"Select Files"**, and limit the accepted media types to images only. Because we're attaching the photo directly onto the Concern, only 1 file should be accepted for upload. Then use your "Upload Photo"-action in the "On Files Selected", and define data flow.



<table>
   <tr><td><a href="e6.1-rest-service.md"><- Previous</a></td><td align="right"><a href="e.7.2-mail-merge.md">Next -></a></td></tr>
</table>
